>> Kyle Simpson: A quick note
on undefined versus undeclared.
This is often confused.
And it's confused because developers,
quite naturally,
think of these words as sort of synonyms.
They seem like they mean kind
of almost the same thing.
And in English, that's probably true.
But in programming,
it's entirely not true.
In programming, and
especially in JavaScript,
these are two entirely different concepts.
So on the previous slide, when I said
type of V, and I got back quote,
undefined, V or whatever that variable is,
didn't even exist.
So how is it that I can get back quote
undefined when something doesn't even
exist?
Well, that's another historical wart,
JavaScript trying to pretend as if
the absence of a declaration
isn't that big a deal.
It's not that big of a problem,
you can work around it.
In retrospect,
they never should have done that.
They should have just
returned a string undeclared.
Undeclared means it's never been created
in any scope that we have access to.
And undefined means there's definitely
a variable, and at the moment,
it has no value.
>> Kyle Simpson: Very different things.
>> Kyle Simpson: The type of operator
is the only operator in existence
that is able to reference a thing that
doesn't exist and not throw an error.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, undefined and
undeclared, we can fairly
straightforwardly sift those out.
But there's another concept of emptiness
in the language that was introduced with,
essentially, ES6.
And the best way to describe
this is uninitialized.
Another way of referring
to this particular
condition that a variable can be in is
called the TDZ, the temporal dead zone.
We're gonna get much more into this in
our next unit of discussion when we talk
about scopes.
We're gonna talk about where
this thing comes from.
But essentially, the idea is that certain
variables, like block scope ones,
don't get initialized.
They never initially get set to undefined.
When something is in an uninitialized
state, it is off-limits.
You're not allowed to touch it in any way,
shape or form, or you'll get an error, and
the error you get is the TDZ error.
So it's yet another concept
that we have of this emptiness.
We can have a variable that's
never been initialized.
We can have a variable that's been
initialized that is undefined.
Or we can have a variable that was never
even created, and then it's undeclared.
Three different concepts that we
need to wrap our brains around.